Hello, dear listener, and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast that could really go for a jolly good lie down right now.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Don.
And I'm an Easter emu egg rattling around in space with whole cartload of terrariums and old share wigs for this one, allegedly.
Terrarium was so close to being...
I was trying 2nd guess, Nathan's special word.
So it's not a emu egg.
No, no.
Very nearly terrarium.
So we're watching what I'm going to call series one, episode 14, Earthbound, but the Blu-ray box set calls it episode five.
It's SP5.
So the 5th recorded, yeah.
Yeah.
And so last time we watched Matter of Life and Death, and we were fairly certain that that was going to be episode two, it was certainly the 1st episode that was ever completely completed.
But this episode has Roy DeTrice in it, and he's in breakaway, but he hasn't been around for a while, and the way that we talk about what's been going on on Alpha, for the last kind of 13 episodes, yeah, is not really very much like what's happening in this story.
So this is something that's a little bit earlier than we think.
I have a very, very vivid memory of the end of this one from when I was a kid.
Very much so, and I think it's why I, traditionally, anyway, remember this is my favourite.
It no longer is because we've just seen so many good ones and we've bathed ourselves in them to the point of, you know, it's probably a mental illness more than an interest now.
But it's just such clean linear plotting.
Yeah, which, and another Anthony Turpolov, so he and his wife wrote this. and is one of the earliest ones to be written.
Roy Detrice was going to be a continuing character, and that's explored in the big finish audios, of which there are 4 box sets, and which I would tediously tell you about during this episode.
They're really, really good.
And I've just listened to them again this week.
I love the character of Simmons.
I don't get why we didn't need a Dr. Smith.
I think he should have stayed on.
He was just too big and too good and more of what was going on behind the scenes as we get in there.
But how do you feel about the character of, you know, just the juxtaposition of the two?
Maybe we can explore that during the episode.
Yeah, I mean, I think one of the things about this episode is it's very slow and very linear.
Well, that's Christopher Lee.
He's also very slow and linear.
He's 6 foot 4 and he's still standing on a box.
So I think that we should probably go in because I think that we will have things that we need to say during some of the longers.
So language episode.
Yes, it is very language.
And it is very straightforward. is like an early episode for various reasons which will undoubtedly talk about.
But I think this is pretty great, and I think the ending is absolutely spectacular.
And of course, it has Christopher Lee, who I think is really pretty awesome as well.
Has no one ever considered this as Middle Earth bound?
Hey.
First thing I thought when I saw him.
Ooh, he's on his way.
I've got a lot to say about that week.
It does fall off at the end.
His final say.
And I know he was into heavy metal and played in a band when he was younger.
Are we not sure that's what he wore?
That really looks like a heavy enough...
No, he was at school with Patrick McNee of Steed of the New Avengers.
And so Pat was the school's pornographer and and Tout.
He took the bets.
And Christopher Lee, they're in the same year at Eton, was the school's thisp.
He organised the young theatre group.
So he was terribly proper and terribly serious and exactly as he is now, apparently.
Well, I think he's terrifying and fabulous in this and playing totally against hype.
I think this is really good.
I think we should go in.
So I have a keyword.
It's terrarium adjacent.
It's fish tank.
And the next time I say that word, I want Richard and the viewer at home to press play on the or the both.
So here we go.
Fish tank.
And we're off.
And we are off.
See, I think these shots of like him and the moon and stuff like that, this is super early stuff and the music, I think, makes it seem early.
It's too very good.
Admin space.
Yeah.
Just finish a team meeting.
Everyone's doing the big hair.
Roy DeTrice is about my age.
He was born.
He and Barry Gray the same age, roughly.
So they're both born around 1918.
But he's doing a lot of Captain Cremen, again.
He's a whole lot of the whole...
So he's 55.
He looks pretty good.
I'm not naming the products required to achieve this list, but I know he never was, but he has such the master vibe.
His look is the master.
I never thought of that.
It's a hair.
Well, yeah, exactly.
He's the sheriff of is the sheriff of Spicingham, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
I hadn't realised like he wasn't quite as, um, you know, quite as pragmatic and quite as ruthless as he is in breakaway. and he perhaps isn't sort of quite as important a character in breakaway.
Yeah.
Anyway, we'll talk more about him.
That administration thing in space, though, is what I want to Mount Space 1999.
Like we've talked about this before.
I love the fact that, you know, he's the commander, but he basically rules from behind a desk rather than from the king's throne in a Shakespearean history play.
You know, we open.
Or a commander swivel chair.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, he's got that beautiful Eames chair, doesn't he?
I've never seen him sit.
There are so few scenes where he's sitting being the boss.
Well, wait till you see the opening credits for series two.
Oh, I do have to say, I got a serious Teletubbies tangene vibe off of that spaceship.
That's spaceship is absolutely surprising.
It got so much stick. not just from the fans, but from the press at the time.
It's the 1st one they've done for this show is an alien.
Oh, yes, of course.
And they were wanting it to be completely alien.
It actually looks like something my mother kept her cotton balls in the bathroom in the 70s, except made of blue glass.
But yeah, you can't quite work it out.
But it's also very Duck Dodgers in the 25th and a half century.
Yeah, isn't it?
Well, so one of the things that we kind of noticed before is that there's all these sort of weird Eldritch horrors that basically have spaceships that look like they're from Earth.
Whereas this doesn't do that.
I know. fucking hell.
Look at like all of this stuff is so great.
Like, again, that's what makes it an early episode is the absolute kind of emphasis on these fabulous model shots.
No, except where do the doors slide in the command pod of the eagle because that doesn't work.
Farmer Adam Rich.
And then the toll...
Where did the grips hide?
Open the doors.
So true.
I worry about that guy who's sitting next to Alan who doesn't never come out well, do they?
No, he never gets the camera pulled, so you never get to see his face.
He's completely out of focus.
I actually think too as well.
We've just gone into the opening credits and it was just a shot of the Eagles going across the screen and then disappearing without kind of establishing what was going on. still don't know.
I've never mentioned you know why Babs is on the lazy Susan, as we've mentioned before, and she is.
She's a replicant.
There's whole end.
No, it's in Barbara's contract.
I just found this out.
She would not allow any shots of her neck to be seen to turn because she was worried about visible wrinkles.
Oh my god.
Much like this podcast, much more.
So you never and now you've heard that, you can't not see it.
She never just turns ahead.
Well, a woman has to protect her VNL, visible neckline.
Must have been really shitty actually just having those with no necks on that because it's only Landau that actually gets a neck.
Everyone else just has to wear a t-shirt cart.
He does have a terrible neck though.
Well, a Sylvia said, and his ass isn't much better.
He got she said he got an Oscar for his character work, not for his leading man.
Or his arm.
Work or the way he walks or his butt, yes.
But I kind of love him and I especially love Anthony Turpolov.
He gave us 4 episodes of it.
And it's Charlie Crichton, of course, is correcting.
He's our guy.
All the rest.
And there's Nick, who is our guy, still with us, thankfully, because a lot of them aren't.
No.
We've lost a couple of people this week.
Well, I think we've lost 2 people since our last episode, and I could be wrong, but we have lost Prentice Hancock.
Um, and of course, we've, we have also more recently um, lost uh, Clifton Jones as well, who was Carno.
And, you know, look at this shot.
Look at this shot.
All the cotton balls have gone all over.
They keep describing it as a crash.
And of course, on the Blu-ray, the fishing line is terribly apparent, but it is very good.
But, like, look at these two.
Like both Clifton and Prentice were in that shot and they're beautiful and I think I think we underestimate how great David Carno is as a character.
He's really good.
It's what you hold back.
And that was the best thing.
It copped so much for that, but actually you look at it.
And yes, they're the children of Stanny Kubrick and it's, we know what.
But there is humour and there is warmth.
Holding back is part of what's helped this to last.
We don't get the full eructions of emotions that we get, say, in Buck Rogers and the 24th and half century, and to be kind, who's still watching that?
Not this podcast.
So it's the, yeah, the less you, the less you throw out, the more you allow the audience to come in and join you.
I do think that like Hancock's character, like Paul Morrow is a very well kind of defined character.
Kevin's seen his best yet.
Yeah.
Nuts in the last sunset.
Isn't that beautiful?
That shot of it.
We're just watching it first. flying across.
Yeah, it's so gorgeous.
So there's a kind of like there's an antenna thing. that they go past and I read, so there's a Space 1999 Catacombs website with all this information that said that that was a gravity.
Yeah, that's part of the.
So do you remember in the one we saw, which was, I can't remember, ring around the moon.
But there's the, when, when they generate a blue light canopy over the, over alpha, they use that Victor uses the 6 gravity anti-gravity tower.
Yes, okay.
It was always there as the anti-gravity tower.
And that's something Asimov, when he was writing notes about this in, for one of the American papers, We're just watching something quite sexually explorative, but it's still very beautiful.
Which is still the link tube.
Also, why is the vacuum chamber link tube right in the front of the pilot?
It should be to the side.
You don't need that during flight.
Everything's beautiful.
We love the suits.
We love the little toys.
Also, the Thunderbird 2 moment when they're taking.
That's wonderful.
Why would you abandon them in the pod when you don't know who's in the ship?
But you want to see that shot.
It doesn't happen very often, so.
Also, yeah.
Also, what a, oh, really?
I mean, I'm quite surprised at the whole germaphagia thing that Alphans have.
Oh, I just touch the surface of this alien vehicle with my visors up so the audience can actually see me.
I'm getting paid to be seen.
So this is literally a hairdryer that, um, no, no, it's actually according to the, um, according to the, um, catacombs of space 1999 catacombs, this is a hairdryer that's been sort of tarted up for Victor to look through into the wall.
I think it's Victor's hairdryer.
It is.
Yeah, yeah.
It's also viewmaster.
So he's actually looking at Pterodactyls, Statue of Liberty and Mount Rushmore.
I had one of our dinosaurs is missing on a gaff.
That was my favourite one.
We've reviewed the gaff space 1999 for war games.
Because I've got the book right here.
I won't torture you all with it again.
Again, I'm not seeing 1973.
So hang on, when was this recorded?
74?
It finished recording 31st of May 74.
It took 12 days to record because Charlie Crichton brought them in on time.
Yeah.
So the original broadcast in the UK was 4th of December 75.
We got it about 6 weeks earlier, but we did get a hangover because I'm trying to remember when non-ratings period was in Australia.
I think it came in...
November, December.
Yeah, it was a big deal when we were.
Oh no, no, nothing was on.
Really odd asymmetrical reveal of the door open.
It's very Tartovsky, isn't it?
I really, really like...
So what I really like, we've just come into the spaceship, the blue spaceship.
And like, I think the set is incredible.
I think this shot is amazingly weird.
We're again in a situation.
I'm doing anti-gravity.
Okay, no, it's they're at Lunar Gravity.
That was made apparent that they're at Lunar...
But they were in fucking lunar gravity on...
They're going to turn on...
The gravity later.
Yeah And Eagles also have gravity.
Because I was making fun of the show because I thought that they thought that having no atmosphere meant there was no gravity, like in a matter of life and death or something.
One of the recent ones.
But I think the idea is that Moonbase Alpha has artificial gravity, right?
They do.
It comes up.
Yeah, but now they're doing need for your garden party cabana exploration, which is what they said here.
I mean, it's amazing, isn't it?
The number of, like the sets in this show, like the sets in this show, think about war games.
Think about what was the Margaret, the Margaret, oh, Margaret Layton.
Margaret Layton set.
The entire studio M, which was the biggest set at Pine, which had been used from everything from, Do you remember in Doctor No with the radioactive core and the water flood?
That was the same studio.
So until they built the spy who loved me, 007.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
As again, she had a lot of dusting today.
She did.
But those sets, those aliens sets are so weird and so strange and so beautiful.
So this is Keith Wilson's very 1st alien tech design since Fireball XL 5 of 1962.
It has come a long way.
Now, we have a product, just, can I be the model nerd?
We have a product called Barasol, which is a vinyl that you can stretch and you, if you've been to any, I don't know, sort of Olympic events or themed restaurants.
You see it as a sort of undulating asynclastic curve ceiling and it can do anything.
And that's what he wanted.
But even though this had, as Luke Gray kept saying, it was the most expensive episodic thing ever made in the UK to this point, but they still didn't have the money to do.
So he ended up with a freaking wedding tent.
And Keith wasn't happy, but I think it looks gorgeous.
And I also love the children of Aurak scattered all the way around.
Yeah, yeah.
Disembodied children of Aurac.
I mean, that little thing looks it looks like war games and it looks like the stuff that we had on the, you know, in Dragon's domain.
But it does look like a travelling neutraumatic spaceship.
They are selling cosmetics. across the galaxy on their way to Middle Earth.
I think they've been into a couple of the sample boxes before setting out.
Really?
You know that?
I'll save it till Chris appears.
Look at that.
Why is no one spritzing them with perfume?
Also, boys, this is May 74.
So we're just, I think, I believe, just before arc in space.
So this is possibly the 1st sci-fi presentation of bubble wrap.
Oh, yeah, there's that one.
Victor's already doing this every generation from just can't help myself popping it.
Poppy poppy pop.
Wow.
As you do.
Yeah, nobody knew would have known what that was.
No.
And his babs with the Kent.
With a drill.
It's a Kenwood pastry.
Also, why the fuck did you have to go and do that, babs?
It's so shocking though.
Don't you think it's really shocking?
What would Hippocrates have told you?
Yes, don't do that.
Don't take the drill to the thing you don't understand.
Exactly.
It is pretty shocking though, isn't it?
I think it is great.
I don't know why she did.
But what's interesting, though, is nosey.
Well, think about how weird and hot I'm the prettiest.
That's it.
Well, she is now because that was the whole point.
At least you're really into full as earth.
Oh my god, it is a wedding tent.
Yeah, pretty much.
But think about how weird and hostile the universe is in Space 1999 and how everyone they meet is really awful and wants to kill everyone on the base.
And here, like these guys are good.
Well, they're on their way to Glastonbury.
In those very same outfits.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
It does feel like a Jethro Toll reunion.
They really should be dancing around men here.
Well, apparently.
And nods to Keith because Keith designed everything.
It's a recognition of American native people and there was a sort of nod to that, but there was originally, I don't know if you know this.
A latex ribbed for his pleasure, nasal bridge.
Oh, it's there.
No, they took the skin off him.
Yeah, no, when they took it off him after a day's recording, it tore his nose off.
He was really shitty about it.
It really did.
So you can see that.
Yeah, see there it is there.
Yeah.
I mean, I think he looks amazing.
But the thing is that these are...
These are good people.
Like you get Christopher Lee, you expect him to play a villain, but he's not a villain.
He's a good man.
He doesn't even go chompy chompy on burbs.
No, no, Bab.
Yeah, Babs killed that lady and he just forget, he says, we don't need judicial revenge as he's lying.
In the expanded notes, she was his pair bond partner.
Oh, a lot didn't make it to the screen.
But she is.
Look at his face.
It's... that was my wife. can't even grow geraniums out of this.
They do mute dumb really well, don't they?
Barbara and Marty.
Yeah, yeah.
Are they great in this?
They are really good.
I think this is a great look as well.
But, you know, like there's a lot of kind of foreheads and eyebrows and stuff in Space 1999 and everyone basically looks like sort of gray skinned angry people.
But I do like these guys.
The critics at the time whopped this one for several reasons.
One was that everybody moved as if they were still in Thunderpur.
No, that was the low gravity.
I could see the strings on their wrists and knees.
And last time I did speak about the high ceilings to hide all the puppeteers, but this is the lower ceiling.
Yeah.
But the other thing that's one for Pride of Erin.
Well, I think the other thing that's worth mentioning is the soundscape of these scenes.
Like, the one thing that struck me is like this is visually kind of weird, but it is the kind of weird that we've done before, but there's a kind of shrieking soundscape that accompanies all of the scenes in this spaceship that makes it very unsettled.
None of this would have been possible without Timothy Lyric.
Just a step left.
They were shooting that next door next year, so not at this episode, but ones we've watched previously.
So why does why does he have an outfit?
Like, why does he have a uniform?
So he doesn't.
He has the civvy outfit, the same one that Dr. Grant more swears.
So you'll notice that that is your standard.
It's anti-static zip onesie.
So, yeah, there is no insignia.
There is no colour.
Yeah, yeah, he doesn't have a slave.
It's the same thing that Victor wears.
So he doesn't get to wear some jeans and a band t-shirt.
Could if you wanted to, but...
But, you know, everybody wants to fit in.
It's an interesting question.
So Simmons came up to supervise the exploration of Planet Meta.
And I guess he's just been sitting in the cupboard with chameleon for the last time.
Closet.
Sorry.
No, no.
He was in his room till all the Xanax ran out.
Yeah.
Well, in the expanded notes, he suffered horrible injuries, but I'm glad that they didn't put that on the telly, but he's been in Sick Bay.
Because there's always a body in Sick Bay every time you go in.
I mean, the thing is that he's now coming back in episode 14 by broadcast, but he should be coming back in episode five.
Well, it's meant to be episode three.
Yeah, okay. than this.
I can believe that too.
And there was expanded stuff about murder and look, we know it's such a sad thing that so much was lost, you know, from script to screen.
But it still works.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, I think the thing, you know, like his desire to get back when we've been through various wormholes and we know that it's probably, you know, we're 100s of years in the future and stuff.
Like suddenly going back, they'll be going back to, you know, 2074.
Um, but we already know that time has passed and all sorts of weird things happen.
After me.
I think it's a disservice to the character that he went from the very controlled, suave, sort of ambiguously evil character from his previous, you know, times in the show to a panicky, restless...
Yeah.
I mean, it was too quick a, a, um, decline mentally.
It really feels like they should have left that to the very end to make it even more of an impact.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think I think they like to make the ending land.
Like part of the thing about the ending is that you kind of feel bad about how happy you are that that happened.
And how happy you are that you learned that it was his fault in that final line, which is just like absolutely incredible.
And so you have to make him much more superly evil.
And so we are about to have him suggest that we just kill Captain Zoltar or whatever.
Is he, is he called Zoltan?
Like it's something...
Zoltar's Battle of the Planet.
It's like similar nasal...
Captain Space name.
Captain Eastern Block unsettlers, basement.
That's right.
With a Zed.
Easter eggs.
Oh, his fabric.
Look at it.
Change colour, as it folds.
It is wonderful, isn't it?
Nuts with a tie-dye this year.
My 1st viewing?
I thought they were all females, but I do see.
No, there's another guy there.
If there is, a gender.
I just think they're cute.
Yeah, yes.
I mean, just listening to Christopher Lee speak.
Like, I was just prepared to sit back.
I thoroughly believe they're sterile, just listening to him.
I mean, they don't really look like they're that much fun.
They're not up for it.
Really?
Mind you, it's 75 years in a terrarium.
I think that is something...
So Lee took this very seriously, as he did with everything.
Okay.
Is this the time to talk about the week?
I think he looks magnificent.
It was made for this.
It cost a fortune.
It's real human hair.
It later turns up on Margaret Layton in collision course.
It's the same fricking week.
They then they then stick it on Peter Cushing and diet pink for missing link.
Oh my god.
And the colour is called... hang on.
The colour was called, look at it up.
Champagne pussy.
I'm not kidding.
I'm sorry.
It meant something different in the 7th.
Now, that's it...
There's my...
There's our...
Back to the pre-show conversation.
That is a dragon.
It gets even better.
They wash it out. stick it on Joan Collins.
Oh my god.
It's the same fricking wig.
It's the Joan Collins of Wig.
And apparently it's had everyone.
The roots are entirely made of helium.
And then the story goes, Peter Jackson being such a fanboy.
Oh, Soron's wig. same wig.
Oh, but that was the job.
And you can see Jackson going, oh, go on, you know you want. to dive into advertising.
Maybe he's worth it.
But I mean, he copped a lot of flak for his acting style, which I've got to say is Christopher Lee.
But, you know, this impassive stoic, I mean, really, he's playing the entirety of Mount Rushmore.
Oh, no.
That's why you get him in.
Yeah, exactly.
Does he have a 5 o'clock shadow or is that actually a choice of makeup?
I wonder doing that.
No, it's Chris.
He's a okay.
Hairy man.
Yeah, plenty of hormones in that one.
Yeah.
It's always 5 o'clock somewhere in space.
Tanya making sure her face will get on camera.
And that's Roger Trist doing butt clench acting.
Oh, but look at Helena smiling.
I'm always put off by that slightly.
Yeah, she's, I know, it's kind of like the queen.
The queen used to meet Saudis.
Oh, that same reckless group.
The space hippies gave us Benoit balls.
So, what do you say, Konig?
That's why they move so serenely?
Because otherwise it can get a bit... a little bit embarrassing.
Yeah, no, no.
I was jog.
I was just in San Francisco.
They're still there.
That's exactly how it, you know, just the waft when they walk into that room and just overcome.
I guess we're lucky we can't spell the smell the patchouli from here.
Surely.
Petulian hash, and peculian skunk, you know what?
Expendable.
He does deliver it well.
What would this series have been like if at least the 1st 5 episodes have had the Dr. Smith?
Yeah, I think that's what it needs.
I mean, if this is episode 3, then we do without him for an episode and then we get rid of him.
And because he's someone we've seen before that ending, which is so great. is much more kind of impressive.
So in the early notes, that the big finish box sets explore.
Yeah, that is 5 o'clock show. interesting, isn't it?
I don't know why, because they could have covered it up.
Maybe you're right, Donna.
Maybe it is shading makeup, although I don't know why.
Not in all the places you'd expect a 5 o'clock shadow, so it's a choice.
Yeah, it's a good.
It's a sallow to give him a skull like...
Yes, I think you're right.
It's to make his his cheeks kind of...
To make him even longer.
We start with a very long face.
And we'll just drag it out.
So she's looking sufficiently dewy.
So one of the things that I do, as I'm watching this for preparation, is that I note down time stamps for moments where Barbara looks particularly Barbara.
Just so just so that I can, you know, put that picture on the website and I was going crazy in this scene.
So she, she, she, she, the, the Vaseline and the great lady.
You know why?
wonderful.
So she complained to Charlie Crichton, and she was quite vocal about this, but of course it was always offset.
I look terrible.
I don't look anything like I did in Mission Impossible.
And he says, well, because he was quite Scottish.
He said, well, you know, that was 7 years ago, at least.
She didn't lie.
I will point out to you when we get to the bit that I am going to put on the website.
I'm sure I know the one.
There's a lot of soft light and focussed on glowing.
Yeah.
So we've suddenly lit this much more too, this sad.
I do think the set's incredible, though.
It's so simple There's never been so much weight on screen as far as I know.
It's pretty white cast to start with.
It's also very white sand.
You know, like mission control and everything.
But yes.
But we've moved away from beige to full on weight.
Yes.
So in the original notes, when she when he wakes up, there's an emotional peak because they're very Vulcan in the notes.
And he pair bonds with Barbara with Helena.
Yes, okay.
Psychic links.
Who wouldn't?
Well, so there's little when she says sufficiently human, all the rest.
There is actually, and it's still in this, but yeah.
It is really subtle.
Like there is an, and particularly when she says goodbye to him as well at the end, like there's a real kind of warmth.
And he does say that thing, you would look more beautiful in suspended animation, which I think is true.
No, he's a space collector.
He needs her mint in the box.
Yeah, is that ever going to resale?
So have we we've done the thing where we choose we get the computer to choose people.
Nope, not yet.
No, but we have done it in the show before.
Do we?
Yes, Exodus.
Yeah, Operation Exodus was just sending certain people.
Do you remember?
Yeah, but I can't remember what the what the actual episode was.
Oh yes.
Yeah.
But obviously, literally after this, this is the 1st time it happens because this is the 1st kind of episode where it happens.
And like, what a fucking creep this guy is.
This is around the point where, um, where Amon Andrews walks in with his big red Bible and Roy DeTree's got a, this is your life.
Oh really?
Well, he was really well known and he'd done a lot of, you know, a lot of TV and big stuff before.
He was interred in the war in Germany and that's where he got into theatre because he was 16, lied about his age and was in the wrath, like all of these boys.
They had incredible lives, much like Don's brother.
I hope forget.
I mean, I always feel like I should know who Roy de Tracy is, but I, well, his daughters, Michelle is his daughter was Frank's wife, Betty, in something. his youngest daughter, I believe it's his daughter.
I need to check these notes was Jemima in Chitty Chitty Bang.
Which we did on Bondfinger, obviously. we might have referenced it.
We may have mentioned the film at some point during that conversation.
Yeah, don't dash for that.
So again, we're on Midori Alert.
Yes, we are.
But in the spaceship.
Yeah, interesting.
They have that too. bring her out of it Oh, there's Bob.
So a friend of the podcast, Adam, was heard to say sometimes he can't tell whether someone's hot or whether they just have a moustache.
And I did have all back now. the same problem with this.
I'm super excited. by the return of the moustache.
We can just see hers there, but it's...
But this exfoliating scrub will take care of that and the Mr.ons have grabbed bad by the...
So this was a very close candidate, obviously, for the photo on the website. with her there with her halo over her face.
It was a big thing at the time.
Women were watching this and taking notes of the colour of her lipstick, which was apparently coral and all the rest of it.
No, this, you know, she, she was the look.
She was the look.
This is before Farrah Fawcett.
So like the coloured plastic stuff is the same stuff that we get in war games?
Is it the same set things?
turned it around.
It looks like some of the toys.
I got tested with at school to see if you're gifted or not back in the dim dark past.
There was a lot of coloured perspective built with.
So what's happening here is Roy de Treece?
No.
Okay.
I just, whenever Nick's on screen, I'm looking at the back of his neck to see how hairy it is.
It is impressively hairy.
Holy shit.
Don't you think Datrice in that shot just looks like he's like the kind of loser at one of Victor's parties.
He's kind of standing up against the wall, crossing his legs, trying to look nonchalant.
Look at me, non-shell.
I don't really want to be here anyways.
Someone will come over and have sex with me at some point.
I'll go and share stats with Sandra.
Isn't that beautiful?
Wonderful.
Just the perspective of this.
Yeah, there should always be more of those model shots on a Space 1999 episode.
Very little.
It gives a sense of unreality in this.
Revisiting the show after so long and being a child, the languid, slow pace.
This one especially, I feel is a construct of not having a lot of forerunners.
Like you're educating the audience and you're educating yourself and you haven't developed the, the, um, paradigms of storytelling in sci-fi.
So everything is slow to tell you what's happening rather than, well, you've seen a dozen sci-fi shows before you're 20.
I think too, though, there is an aesthetic thing happening there in...
The Kubrick sort of.
Yeah exactly. sort of static shots with rumbling in the background.
I tell you that, you know, this is a big thing.
Yeah.
And you know, like in a way, like too much action would be kind of cheap and meretricious and what we want is these to be kind of prestige television.
It looks expensive and it just moves incredibly slowly.
But I think I think this episode is maybe more than the other ones that we've watched. just much more linear.
But this is how people behave at work when they have jobs.
It felt quite hyper realistic in that, you know, there isn't a lot of, you don't, you don't kirk it up.
No.
But I mean, there's no villain here.
The aliens aren't villains.
They're good. is the villain.
The trees is the villain.
Yeah.
Whereas in a normal thing.
What was the one?
Do you remember the one with the guy who killed all of those people by inventing the killing everyone drives?
Yeah, that's right.
Quell Herd, right?
But you remember the evil moustache, the beard guy?
who wanted to kill everyone on earth.
Like, these guys are like this only not evil.
Oh my god, look at the bubble.
You cannot resist.
Poppy, poppy, paper.
Pop, pop.
Look at that guy.
They're so stoned.
How else are you gonna survive it?
It's like, ah, she's not going to come back.
Oh, she like brain damage.
Are we coming up to the photo?
Are we coming?
The brain damage thing actually scared the fucking shit out of me when I was a kid.
Really?
I think so.
And then there's a moment where it's kind of like she's just there staring into space because maybe she's brain damaged and then she's okay.
He's just playing gyno with the doctor with the bits of wind chime.
He's got over there.
So, yeah.
Like that.
Like her hand moves.
Her mouth is open.
She's totally vacant.
She's startled.
No, no, no, that's her O face, and that's...
There's our picture.
It's our picture.
I can see right up your nose.
My dear.
And then suddenly, 0 my god, my brain, it's not damaged. feel it.
Again.
And then we get the...
Don't smile, Barbara.
Oh, Christ, and don't smile.
Konic.
Look, there is this thing and there is a similarity in their appearance. even though there's that difference of sex, but cheekbones, eyes, especially the limpidness of those eyes.
I'm a seven.
The horror.
I'm a seven, you're an eight.
Yeah.
The Volpine intent of their smiles at each other, yeah.
And again, the Easter egg.
Emu.
No, no, no, no.
Teletubby Tangene.
Can you make delicious couscous meal?
Look, he's like your dad.
He's like your boss making a joke.
It's worse than that.
It's dad with the Christmas crack.
And according to computer, it's Barbara's birthday.
So it'll be cake in the brick room after lunch.
But Reuter Trees does hold every scene he's in.
He's great I'm not apprentice who I'm listening to as many interviews with him as I could.
He was just such an easygoing sweet guy in the way that a lot of folk got into acting in the 60s and 70s.
He had some big roles and he was really well respected by the people he worked for.
But as he said about 1999 and what a lot of us miss, certainly with the rapidity of modern drama that we watch now.
They're doing a job.
They're not over, they're not overdoing it, and also, you kind of, you're supposed to like each other.
So what we then, you know, the laid backness is, well, you know, they're trained to not be emotional.
So it's quite deliberate in the performance, yeah.
It's like at work, you know, like if everyone knows that you're having a bad day, then you're doing the wrong thing.
Exactly.
I think he's so easygoing.
Like, I'm not always totally sold with him in Doctor Who, but I think he's hot and chill and really great in this.
Yeah, yeah.
And a great musician.
He gave all of that up in later life, but um, in, um, is it, um, which is the one, um, anyway, we're about, we're going to see that coming up and he plays guitar, It's his guitar.
Isn't it Black Sun?
Like, isn't he?
I think he's playing the guitar when they all think they're going to die.
And that's him, and the ditty is apparently the filthiest sea shanty you've ever heard.
And they were all corpsing on set, but yeah, I'll have to look her up with the words, but we won't be...
Oh, also, who leaves their bloody tell?
iPhone on the top. table, yeah.
On the table.
He's going to have to spend 2 hour course.
Yeah, yeah, on 6 security.
Just on, yeah.
And get all the questions, right, at the end.
Yeah.
That is pretty shit, isn't it?
I've never seen him take it off before.
So, Freud would say. this, like...
Check offs, uh, what do they call it?
communicate?
No, it's Chekhov's matrix that you need to create in order to get the suspended animation thing to work.
So we just had that mentioned.
What episode is that?
No, no, just now.
Because the reason...
We're using Chekhov as in the literary...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So we get that mentioned here because that's going to be important for the end to work.
And it also ends up making, what I really like about is it makes Christopher Lee's character much, much more ambiguous.
And Marty, I mean, they both knew exactly what they were doing.
And they, I was going to save it till we got there, crutch acting from Royal Trees there.
And by the way, beat you too.
Peekaboo.
Is that what it does?
I love for there to be a door at work that said nuclear power.
It's all just an easy labels.
You can do it.
Yeah.
No one's going to.
Just Lettra said.
I've been through the tunnels underneath RPA and you were in these underground tunnels.
It's very weird. and you go past nuclear medicines.
Did you go when you walk past?
I worry.
They had a recently having given birth woman and myself walking through the underground tunnels between old King George V.
Oh, yes, exactly. new IPA.
Very cool.
I meant the last time I made that out of Lego.
It's another super pretty ABBA fan.
Yes, that I absolutely thought of you. when I saw this.
He's a very pretty Benny.
Yeah, it's not going to go well.
There's only room for one beard in this.
Yeah.
That's true.
And it's Roy de Trece's press on beard.
As Brendan called it the BBC beard.
They rented them on a budget.
Yeah, no, he's hard, that guy.
So this is just a redress of, um, of command, come on, which is a shame because I was wanting to see the, he's very big.
Look at you.
Really?
Why do you have a fucking panel that says do not open?
Like, you could just not have the panel and then wouldn't you wouldn't be able to open it?
But you have a door and you say, do not open on it.
And it opens on another door that says, do not open.
Look it's the union. has to be a certain amount of work for sign writers.
Okay.
So they have to create situations where signs are needed.
It's one of the things that I love about this.
We were, we did a recent sort of Doctor Who thing on um, worries of the deep and one of the things.
One of the things I loved about it is there's signs everywhere and that's what I love here.
Look, do not open.
It's another fucking door.
You open the door that says do not open and there's another door behind there.
This is a great shot.
The conversation with the with the screens.
Very good.
But acting.
Don't open the door.
It says do not open.
It's a microwave.
Don't you like?
Now, we know this isn't the power station because we've seen Force of Life and that's that beautiful, huge goldfinger vault door.
So this is actually just a 3 amp plug.
This is just your bloody thing you plug your iPhone into from the other side.
So why is this?
It's a relay.
We know that the whole core of power cannot be something that's only a foot and a half.
They've only got one lightning cable.
Okay, everything else is USB.
You're right Yeah.
He's taken the only lightning cables.
I think there's also Die Bitch.
See that?
Yeah, die bitch.
Never goes well for them.
But also that's a beautiful shot.
And also I kind of like him talking down into the camera there.
No Charlie Crichton knows what he's doing.
Yeah, he really does, doesn't he?
And then the cameras are up, looking down on them in the dark.
It is pretty well done, isn't it?
Without us seeing him on the screen.
And he's very reasonable in his...
It does look very Austin Powers like he's holding a penis pump.
Who's to say he's not?
Do I continue counting?
Exactly.
Give me something to do.
What was a damn...
Mr. San Francisco?
Oh, shit.
I used to know the name of the brand, which is embarrassing, but...
I did work behind the counter in a sex shop in Sydney as my 1st job.
Excellent.
It does feel like you're still...
San Francisco pump.
Sorry, I had to go there.
It does feel like you're still at work. in this episode, doesn't it?
Because you know that Commissioner Simmons would have stood there saying, can I get a discount?
I'm here all the time.
He's exactly who I would have expected outside of loitering around, but don't trust people whose moustache doesn't join their beer.
I never got that.
Yeah, it's wrong.
That is a press on beer, though.
Look at Prentice in the half line.
I know.
They're beautifully and dramatically lead in this scene, aren't they?
Cheekbones.
Yeah, yeah.
Yep.
Big's just saying no, we're all fucked.
That's also this, and here are some models in the background.
I was trying to explain this to a friend at work and I just said, and basically everyone's very attractive.
It's true.
It's the 70s.
It a moon base.
We have a solarium.
And then Victor, obviously.
I think there should be little telephones under the lights of each table, like in the cabaret scene.
You phone up the other tables and hook up.
It's so interesting this too, isn't it?
Because we hate him and we don't want him to win, but essentially, it's just like, if he goes, and it's the thing that, that, that Kernik's been saying to him all along, I just want you to go, I hope you win the lottery, you suck, you know.
I want you out of my hair.
Like we've said to every other HR director with...
You've made the play.
Look, honestly, Scrabble on Fridays.
Fucking awful since you came along.
It's not even HR.
He's the consultant.
Your agency has hired, but after they've already done the rounds of the high powered company, and now we're on the mid-tier run, where the consultants are considerably worse at their job and do even less.
Yeah, I think you might be right.
I worked in the public service.
We got 3rd tier consultants by the time they got to us.
Third.
But there's a really interesting thing that Christopher Lee's character says...
I hate you.
No, he says, it's a shame he's so diseased.
Yes.
It's, you know, it's terrible that he wins.
And it's kind of like, oh, okay, so are you going to deliberately forget to do the Matrix so that he gets killed.
And and Commander Kernig was, thank you, Neptus.
Commander Koenig was thoroughly aware of it also.
Yeah, yeah.
Malicious compliance.
This is all about malicious compliance.
You sure he's not heard of HR?
Supervisor.
But it's really interesting, isn't it?
Like they make it really clear that it will only work if we, if we, you know, let our computers do his matrix.
And then nothing is remarked upon the fact that he just forces his way in there.
He agrees.
Yeah, the commissioner is diseased.
It's a tragedy that he should succeed through the use of force.
And yet it's the most passive aggressive killing.
But it has...
But has he been there through all the times they've discussed this?
Or was he just lurking too far away, not listening to this?
No babble.
No, because he runs out of the room just before.
Yeah, like DeTrece's character leaves just before it gets explained.
So he doesn't know.
But these people...
Helena is also aware.
Yeah, Helena's aware.
John's aware and Christopher Lee is aware.
I've got the staple gun.
I love this ship and I...
Oh, you know who builds it?
Space models. who also built the Daleks for Dalek Master Plan and the spaceship for the Dalek invasion of Earth for the movie.
They made everything.
They made the com locks.
They made them.
I think it's got that front axial projection thing to light it up.
It does.
There are no Donwell like this.
There are no internal lights in any models in space 1999.
Oh, really?
It's all front.
Oh, everything is front accent.
Yeah, okay.
Because that's something that these boys were doing way back in the 40s.
So it's that, it's the kind of paint that you have on the, like gray...
Yeah, yeah. like on the side of a road.
Yeah, exactly.
The same thing.
All the stuff that they paint Barbara Bane with, so...
This, you say this is slow, but I find this has moved very quickly and elegantly.
There's no fat in this at all.
We're very drunk, though, I think.
This is also true.
Also, very playboy position of the pert we knee up.
Did you notice that?
Yes, just, yes, pull that down for your modesty, love.
That's it.
It is the shittest garden party you've ever tent, you know.
No, I kind of love.
Also, it's a little bit, it's just a little bit San Francisco gay pride, that whole thing.
You just don't want to touch that without washing your hands.
No, you don't know where.
That's going to have a sticky surface on that.
I do have a daisy butt.
It's a fricking butt plot.
Name it.
Look, they all know what they've just done.
Yeah do you think so?
Well, they may not be 100%.
You might be right, though.
No, they're they're they're pretty sure.
Goody goody.
They're very goody-goody.
I think they're very good at denial.
But I think there's a choice that they make, which I think is absolutely fascinating at the end, and I don't quite know how to read it.
I'm shocked we're almost there.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. about to be there because he's about to wake up.
And this is, I felt for him here because I've been waking up at 3 o'clock in the morning every morning and then not being able to go back to sleep, but it's kind of like, am I at earth yet?
You know, um, is this bubble wrap creasing my hair?
Oh my god, it's a bubble wrap pillow.
Oh, but this moment, I remember this at the age of about eight.
Yeah, no me too.
It was horrifying.
And I remember being worried as a child.
It's just come back how much air is in that glass box.
Yeah, I was thinking that too.
They'll touch their face because bang, bang, bang.
But also I love also the condensation around the box as if he's...
That's very good.
Does he starve?
Does he die of thirst?
Asphyxiation, I think.
Do you think?
But maybe there's air.
Power.
Yeah, yeah, you're right.
Because they didn't take air before. flatline.
Yeah, yeah.
But this, like, he's so proud that he's won.
And that fucking shot, that cold.
It's just like, holy crap.
And look how concerned they are for him.
What?
You?
No one's really losing it, are they?
It's so great, isn't it?
Because that's the moment, isn't it?
Where we realise that it hasn't worked.
Sandra looks a bit bothered because she's slightly bothered.
But it's paperwork.
More paperwork.
That's going to have to...
A lot of incident reports.
If we watch Landau's face, No, that kind of belies it because he does look surprised.
I won't say startled, but no one answers the phone.
They just sit there and listen.
Boxing Day and you don't want more.
They listen to him and they listen to him screaming.
And they don't say anything.
No, as good people, the worst thing they could do would be reply.
Maybe, but I do think there's something brutally cold about it because that's him suddenly realising what's happened.
And then he screams that they just don't answer.
They're in, so look at that face.
It's amazing.
It's so bleak, isn't it?
It's so brutal. the best.
And that terror of asphyxia.
But no one is answering the phone.
Nothing, you know, what can they say?
You can just add to his pain.
Because if he knows they're hearing him die, he's lost face as well as his...
Do you think they're saving him?
I just think it's just like, fuck, we can't deal with this.
We just can't deal with it.
But look, any reply just makes him know that not only has he lost, he's lost visibly in front of them and his point is, I've realised that all of this is a documentary and they are the vodafone call set.
But like I was watching it because I remember this ending, but I couldn't remember exactly how it worked.
I know, fucking hell.
This is what I remembered, you know.
But I was kind of going...
Oh, they'll never know. when he just and then just goes...
Yeah, no, just wait there for 75 years.
Siemens, you'll be fine.
Oh, it's going to be really spongy and yucky when they wake up, isn't it?
Yuck.
Yeah, but they just hang up and leave him. brutal.
And then, of course, the worst thing is that of course he gets chosen by the computer.
And if he had done the right thing and waited for it to happen, they would have done the Matrix and he would have been fine and he would have got back to Earth.
I don't want to, I don't want to...
Only to find that...
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You could join the BR.
If you are going to listen.
And there it is.
If you are going to listen to the big finish one.
Should I spoiler it?
Just, yeah, yeah, yeah.
They do it to Paul Morrow.
Simmons survives.
Oh my god.
I'm not quite sure how it happened again.
I don't think that was ever in the original notes, but I do know.
Thank you, Anthony Turpoloff.
That was really Chris.
Amazing.
And I know it's because little emotion is going on, but that did not go slowly.
There was lots happening.
I think I think for me, what I'm more used to...
Yeah, well that's it.
But I think what I'm used to is this sort of brutal insane hostile universe that they inhabit.
And just for one episode they meet nice people.
And surprisingly, it's Christopher Lee.
And then they're horrible.
Like they're the people who are horrible in this episode.
Well, we've been told the dark side of all of this is that humanity is a disease.
Look at war games.
Yeah.
Guardian of period, you know, where, oh, we're going to give you a perfect society, but you're not good enough for it.
Yeah, yeah.
You're not ready.
Yeah.
Oh, so the narrative thing that the...
It's either environmental dangers or monsters and monsters are really beyond good and evil.
They're monsters.
Only we are capable of evil.
Yeah, because we have conscious choice.
Oh, just because we don't know anything else that isn't human.
But I also think too, like what's interesting about Space 1999 is the weird spare hostility of the universe and you never see anything like that in anything else, I think.
No, I can't think of any series that explores the coldness of it. the dearth of anything.
Yeah.
I mean, Battlestar Galactica takes place in a universe that's not populated by anyone else at all.
But here, this is a universe populated by just Eldridge horrors of various kinds.
You know, it's pretty great.
Well, there was all that existential dread of the...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, they didn't know they were alive though.
We just had Nixon.
We just moved at the oil crisis, the 3 day week.
Yeah, yeah.
And you couldn't trust authority anymore.
Not like now.
Exactly.
So different now.
Yeah.
Well, I think we're probably done, don't you?
It went much more quickly than I expected.
I do think that is a pretty spectacular episode, and I think the ending is incredibly comfortable. can't think of many other fantasy SF series, let alone episodes where you get such a definitive, bleak catastrophic ending.
And I think the ending is catastrophic partly because the crew, like that main mission is forced to just look on helplessly.
And did sweet FA to prevent?
No, from the story.
That's right.
And they know there's pain in the...
Yeah, Comlock.
Yeah If it had been Sandra.
No, we would have done anything. torn down the universe to save Sandra.
Yeah, we would.
Well, I'm going to plug some things before we go and we've got some other stuff coming up as well from Brendan and Stephen's side as well.
Yes, good. excellent.
So I'm going to mention 500-year diary.
Tomorrow's episode will be on Boomtown.
The 2nd time, that Blondfell Foch Pasimir Day Slaveen appears on the show.
And she's the same character she plays in Ted Lasso.
No.
She's so great.
And of course, untitled Star Trek Project, which just recently did a series one episode from Deep Space 9 called The Forsaken, which we absolutely raved about.
The film with Major Barrows. just amazing And the lift.
It's a bit like this one, but they get out.
They do eventually get out rather than suffocating.
What's happening with 3-handed games?
So Avengers continues with a plom, and we've got some new ones coming out very soon, and it's a surprise because I can't remember where we're up to.
But we've got a new theme.
We've just got a new theme starting end of Empire, which is sort of like the darker side. pretty much like this one.
What goes wrong when you are watching it, you are watching what's going on, but you've kind of feel that you don't really have the power to intervene or that these things are beyond you.
So we talk about race and culture, but, you know, there's also a lot of fun, things happening as well.
Yeah, these things keep coming up in everything we watch, don't we?
What do you do if you choose not to act?
What happens if you choose not to act?
Or if you simply feel that you are the passive witness of history.
So maybe the message we've got today is you don't have to be passive.
You can actually stand up there as I was in DC just well last week.
You can actually stand there and just be seen.
Didn't really help Commissioner Simmons. didn't work out very well for him at all.
All right.
Well, if you want to keep up with what's going on in the startling Barbara Bain adjacent podcasting world, you can go to startling Barbara Bain.com slash podcasts and all of them will be listed there.
It's not as if there's nothing to listen to, there's plenty to listen to.
Have you done a Star Trek now, young Nathan?
158, I don't say it's, no.
It's a sickness.
All right, it's a disease disease.
That's it.
So all that remains, I think, then is for me to say, until next time, remember never to rush out of the room before all the exposition has been completed.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Good night.
Do you want the wig back now?
Yes, please.
See you then.